setup.md, before:

---
title: Download and Install CEDESK
---

## Download

### Installer Packages

| Platform | Installer Package |
|---|---|
| version 1.31.2, released 2017-09-04
|---|---|
| Windows | [cedesk-1.31.2.exe](https://goo.gl/du38JW) |
| MacOS X | [cedesk-1.31.2.dmg](https://goo.gl/6nzvNi) |
| Debian Linux | [cedesk-1.31.2.deb](https://goo.gl/HpST39) |

### Source Code Repository
Fork on Github [github.com/cedesk/data-exchange](https://github.com/cedesk/data-exchange).

## Installation

Complete instructions for setting up CEDESK on a client are found [here](/docs/CEDESK-Setup.pdf).

## Upgrade

The repository database can undergo changes from one version to the next, and the upgrade of the repository database is not automatic. Please contact the [authors](mailto:cedeskteam@gmail.com) for assistance.

#### Prerequisit

Note that CEDESK requires a MySQL database to be installed on the local machine or on a server in the network. Installation packages are available [here](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/mysql/).

Commit message:

add reference to build instructions, moved source code structure

setup.md, after:

---
title: Download and Install CEDESK
---

## Download

### Installer Packages

| Platform | Installer Package |
|---|---|
| version 1.31.2, released 2017-09-04
|---|---|
| Windows | [cedesk-1.31.2.exe](https://goo.gl/du38JW) |
| MacOS X | [cedesk-1.31.2.dmg](https://goo.gl/6nzvNi) |
| Debian Linux | [cedesk-1.31.2.deb](https://goo.gl/HpST39) |

### Build from Source Code
Fork on Github [github.com/cedesk/data-exchange](https://github.com/cedesk/data-exchange).

See [Developer's Guide](/developers-guide) for build instructions.

## Installation

Complete instructions for setting up CEDESK on a client are found [here](/docs/CEDESK-Setup.pdf).

## Upgrade

The repository database can undergo changes from one version to the next, and the upgrade of the repository database is not automatic. Please contact the [authors](mailto:cedeskteam@gmail.com) for assistance.

#### Prerequisit

Note that CEDESK requires a MySQL database to be installed on the local machine or on a server in the network. Installation packages are available [here](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/mysql/).
